README.md, before:

# Senex

Uses Astrodientst's [Swiss Ephemeris](https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swephinfo_e.htm) C library in Haskell, exposing it as a Module and then using it for a Servant-based API that powers a tiny Elm SPA, which renders a Placidus chart in SVG.

## Progress as of 12/15/2019

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82133/70871651-608e7080-1f6f-11ea-8432-0c2031d8b6a2.png)


## Development

Been using VSCode with `elm`, `Haskell Language Server` and `Haskell Language` as extensions; it's been quite alright except for [the weird memory leak in HIE](https://dimjasevic.net/marko/2018/08/15/haskell-ide-the-memory-hog-engine/) (!)

To run the backend server, simply run `stack run`. Currently, it doesn't serve the Elm app: I'm using [`elm-live`](https://github.com/wking-io/elm-live) for live development, so I'm simply running both processes on separate terminals and visiting `localhost:8000` to see the Elm SPA.

To run elm-live:

    elm-live src/Main.elm -- --output=main.js

To run the Haskell server

    stack run


### Notes:

* Consider packaging the C bindings, and adding the appropriate support in the `cabal` file.
* Considered using [`servant-elm`](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/servant-elm), but ended up defining my JSON types and functions by hand.
* Even though cabal auto-generates the `hs` files from `hsc` sources when building/linking, `VSCode` seems confounded about `hsc` files and one needs to run `stack build` by hand to get them to be compiled -- the `hie` process picks them up afterwards, it seems.

## Haskell bindings to the SwissEphemeris library

### Compiling the C libs

(TODO: maybe should add an `install` task  to the C bits)

```
➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.so
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swedate.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swehouse.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swejpl.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swemmoon.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swemplan.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swepcalc.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   sweph.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swepdate.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swephlib.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swecl.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swehel.c     
cc	 -shared -o libswe.so swedate.o swehouse.o swejpl.o swemmoon.o swemplan.o swepcalc.o sweph.o swepdate.o swephlib.o swecl.o swehel.o

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.a
ar r libswe.a	swedate.o swehouse.o swejpl.o swemmoon.o swemplan.o swepcalc.o sweph.o swepdate.o swephlib.o swecl.o swehel.o
ar: creating archive libswe.a

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.dylib

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ cp libswe.* /usr/local/lib/
```

## Using the C Bindings

Example main (based on https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swephprg.htm#_Toc19111155):

```haskell
main :: IO
main = do 
  -- location of your ephemeris _folder_
  setEphemeridesPath "/Users/luis/code/senex/csrc/sweph_18"
  let time = julianDay 1989 1 6 0.0
  let coords = map (\p -> (p, (calculateCoordinates time p))) [Sun .. Chiron]
  let cusps  = calculateCusps time (basicCoords (14.0839053, -87.2750137)) Placidus
  forM_ coords $ \(planet, coord)->
    putStrLn $ show planet ++ ": " ++ show coord
  putStrLn $ "Cusps: " ++ show cusps
```

Which outputs:

```haskell
Sun: Right (Coords {lat = 285.64724200024165, long = -8.254238068673002e-5, distance = 0.983344884137739, longSpeed = 1.0196526213625938, latSpeed = 1.4968387810319695e-5, distSpeed = 1.734078975098347e-5})
Moon: Right (Coords {lat = 262.48117294528356, long = -4.905353383440304, distance = 2.541059357627873e-3, longSpeed = 13.539284298718682, latSpeed = 0.3392091965109866, distSpeed = -3.335582471922629e-5})
Mercury: Right (Coords {lat = 304.31440617188355, long = -1.3440800529425412, distance = 1.0631760110344726, longSpeed = 1.2740014806904785, latSpeed = 0.15124350747576998, distSpeed = -2.4544384076849012e-2})
Venus: Right (Coords {lat = 264.04869233523164, long = 0.611405334065098, distance = 1.541582583770699, longSpeed = 1.2513022022944864, latSpeed = -4.242629234528706e-2, distSpeed = 3.7838225239450584e-3})
Mars: Right (Coords {lat = 22.78483261142441, long = 0.6472654073363234, distance = 1.0224116051096686, longSpeed = 0.5238430038342773, latSpeed = 1.942622907667852e-2, distSpeed = 9.240031315557963e-3})
Jupiter: Right (Coords {lat = 56.44155800097809, long = -0.8785523476115656, distance = 4.335644198505431, longSpeed = -4.88842084035685e-2, latSpeed = 4.367591705532038e-3, distSpeed = 1.235220405072288e-2})
Saturn: Right (Coords {lat = 276.1820087613432, long = 0.7124661106433279, distance = 11.011939358359793, longSpeed = 0.11736930636883483, latSpeed = -9.50953203038811e-4, distSpeed = -2.7734883523371427e-3})
Uranus: Right (Coords {lat = 272.0517155140088, long = -0.22004079326191983, distance = 20.269982255822082, longSpeed = 5.9199702638179044e-2, latSpeed = -1.8348838403496113e-4, distSpeed = -3.835650269219664e-3})
Neptune: Right (Coords {lat = 280.1110438430756, long = 0.9024310257851641, distance = 31.197894367235328, longSpeed = 3.7822803787784465e-2, latSpeed = -1.0376379525413769e-4, distSpeed = -1.6316454570516235e-3})
Pluto: Right (Coords {lat = 224.68172926588147, long = 15.629616292066745, distance = 30.10503346247479, longSpeed = 2.3906567127179156e-2, latSpeed = 7.006203197180026e-3, distSpeed = -1.4619215232707367e-2})
MeanNode: Right (Coords {lat = 337.5234813280144, long = 0.0, distance = 2.5695552897999894e-3, longSpeed = -5.29028695601468e-2, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 0.0})
TrueNode: Right (Coords {lat = 336.0939772852687, long = 0.0, distance = 2.431002861595713e-3, longSpeed = -0.15458670098362634, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 9.461379851655086e-6})
MeanApog: Right (Coords {lat = 176.27796853267614, long = -1.658313456511187, distance = 2.7106251317225464e-3, longSpeed = 0.11092946668995039, latSpeed = -1.3957593707984951e-2, distSpeed = 0.0})
OscuApog: Right (Coords {lat = 160.76672907240018, long = -0.4175464087960888, distance = 2.7280104068905034e-3, longSpeed = -3.219056080555324, latSpeed = 0.2728854201125149, distSpeed = 4.0357015237500586e-6})
Earth: Right (Coords {lat = 0.0, long = 0.0, distance = 0.0, longSpeed = 0.0, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 0.0})
Chiron: Right (Coords {lat = 93.53727572747667, long = -6.849325566420532, distance = 11.045971701732345, longSpeed = -6.391339610156536e-2, latSpeed = 8.213606290819226e-4, distSpeed = 1.6210560093203594e-3})
Cusps: (Cusps {i = 112.20189657163523, ii = 138.4658382335878, iii = 167.69682489058204, iv = 199.79861981778183, v = 232.2797046698429, vi = 263.0249102802477, vii = 292.20189657163525, viii = 318.46583823358776, ix = 347.69682489058204, x = 19.798619817781823, xi = 52.27970466984291, xii = 83.02491028024768},Angles {ascendant = 112.20189657163523, mc = 19.798619817781823, armc = 18.277351820745423, vertex = 216.1872418365295, equatorialAscendant = 106.85773516967282, coAscendantKoch = 101.19442735316477, coAscendantMunkasey = 153.1221838791593, polarAscendant = 281.19442735316477})
```

Note that the `calculateCoordinates` function is currently using the default calculations from Swiss Ephemeris, which return the _ecliptic_ degree numbers for position. One could also obtain equatorial. To compare the output of the above main to the <astro.com> raw data, you can use this page: https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swetest.htm

## Using the API

If you execute `stack run`, you'll launch the little web server. Right now there's only one endpoint, `/api/horoscope`, which outputs all the necessary data to draw a chart using the Placidus system (with geocentric, ecliptic planetary coordinates).

E.g.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -vd '{"dob": "2019-11-29T20:52:39.230Z", "loc": [40.7128, 74.0060]}' http://localhost:3030/api/horoscope | jq
```

Will return:

```json
{
  "angles": {
    "coAscendantMunkasey": 184.07155823288545,
    "armc": 95.61800714416292,
    "vertex": 12.249319507635633,
    "coAscendantKoch": 189.73116677377803,
    "polarAscendant": 9.731166773778025,
    "ascendant": 184.45905828112743,
    "equatorialAscendant": 186.11946559553854,
    "mc": 95.15715438291743
  },
  "cusps": {
    "viii": 30.857771867801034,
    "iv": 275.15715438291744,
    "xii": 158.7976013458591,
    "vii": 4.459058281127454,
    "iii": 241.49309969070742,
    "xi": 128.63707423591143,
    "vi": 338.7976013458591,
    "x": 95.15715438291743,
    "ii": 210.857771867801,
    "v": 308.6370742359114,
    "ix": 61.493099690707425,
    "i": 184.45905828112743
  },
  "planets": [
    {
      "planet": "Sun",
      "coords": {
        "long": -3.2442303790940265e-05,
        "distSpeed": -0.00017325688712833964,
        "distance": 0.9863760524073597,
        "lat": 247.33264880176225,
        "longSpeed": 1.0133084132855246,
        "latSpeed": -3.863831321763737e-05
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Moon",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.8193364655556776,
        "distSpeed": 3.4199571717112877e-05,
        "distance": 0.002595173044398994,
        "lat": 287.65707267611856,
        "longSpeed": 12.85711522794824,
        "latSpeed": -1.1591077157393737
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Mercury",
      "coords": {
        "long": 2.2840468202086095,
        "distSpeed": 0.023643862939218642,
        "distance": 1.0394771384346215,
        "lat": 227.4720925435879,
        "longSpeed": 1.1103955965543209,
        "latSpeed": -0.07381439176273445
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Venus",
      "coords": {
        "long": -1.4298689406579366,
        "distSpeed": -0.004673349588300221,
        "distance": 1.4436347832633516,
        "lat": 274.7729229195149,
        "longSpeed": 1.2393033430774942,
        "latSpeed": -0.03062141107869374
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Mars",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.6389925032221768,
        "distSpeed": -0.005799817007780383,
        "distance": 2.394266061807406,
        "lat": 216.9582906658545,
        "longSpeed": 0.6613181108727035,
        "latSpeed": -0.007476121429545853
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Jupiter",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.14065496787551218,
        "distSpeed": 0.0055021301641855185,
        "distance": 6.140564456540776,
        "lat": 269.35796286622525,
        "longSpeed": 0.22093221925582224,
        "latSpeed": -0.0017197586772309318
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Saturn",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.09219558630909697,
        "distSpeed": 0.010786603076421411,
        "distance": 10.766634669694042,
        "lat": 287.87005793978847,
        "longSpeed": 0.09923907956042938,
        "latSpeed": -0.0013210873063737077
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Uranus",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.5086037140772992,
        "distSpeed": 0.009634594204334702,
        "distance": 18.996900475321056,
        "lat": 33.3730578798885,
        "longSpeed": -0.03189501312360131,
        "latSpeed": 0.0003803078778294534
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Neptune",
      "coords": {
        "long": -1.0404667767161933,
        "distSpeed": 0.01714450411055644,
        "distance": 29.77022690830857,
        "lat": 345.9277533857561,
        "longSpeed": 0.0013585201191201608,
        "latSpeed": 0.00044575928526611444
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Pluto",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.6093798128580833,
        "distSpeed": 0.012651161944830309,
        "distance": 34.630835428945375,
        "lat": 291.42159066580865,
        "longSpeed": 0.02585129866720648,
        "latSpeed": -0.0012984194145876868
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "MeanNode",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0.0025695552897999903,
        "lat": 99.940245204816,
        "longSpeed": -0.0529198493423801,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "TrueNode",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": -2.000108152646491e-05,
        "distance": 0.0025454732460946884,
        "lat": 98.64506720104299,
        "longSpeed": 0.014766990832911874,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "MeanApog",
      "coords": {
        "long": -4.934892324024697,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0.0027106251317225464,
        "lat": 353.45270582739926,
        "longSpeed": 0.11199567205597004,
        "latSpeed": -0.004183727585189979
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "OscuApog",
      "coords": {
        "long": -5.19812275167748,
        "distSpeed": -5.769891521104746e-06,
        "distance": 0.0027194482077314954,
        "lat": 3.8151605129556345,
        "longSpeed": -3.557246823636227,
        "latSpeed": 0.01887116086156039
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Earth",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0,
        "lat": 0,
        "longSpeed": 0,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Chiron",
      "coords": {
        "long": 3.0425800620614827,
        "distSpeed": 0.01597359808865773,
        "distance": 18.396872395030705,
        "lat": 1.5149084336742755,
        "longSpeed": -0.012095695862155824,
        "latSpeed": -0.0036824990895765585
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

###  Google Places Proxy

Due to CORS restrictions, we can't call the google places APIs from Elm. Fortunately, it's quite straightforward to build a proxy! Here's an example interaction:

```bash
➜  senex git:(google-apis) ✗ curl -v "http://localhost:3030/api/proxy/autocomplete?input=tegucigalpa&token=12345"
*   Trying ::1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connection failed
* connect to ::1 port 3030 failed: Connection refused
*   Trying 127.0.0.1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 3030 (#0)
> GET /api/proxy/autocomplete?input=tegucigalpa&token=12345 HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3030
> User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2019 20:19:14 GMT
< Server: Warp/3.2.28
< Content-Type: application/json;charset=utf-8
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
{"status":"OK","predictions":[{"place_id":"ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g","description":"Tegucigalpa, Honduras"}]}⏎                                                                                                                                       ➜  senex git:(google-apis) ✗ curl -v "http://localhost:3030/api/proxy/placeDetails?place_id=ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g&token=12345"
*   Trying ::1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connection failed
* connect to ::1 port 3030 failed: Connection refused
*   Trying 127.0.0.1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 3030 (#0)
> GET /api/proxy/placeDetails?place_id=ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g&token=12345 HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3030
> User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2019 20:19:56 GMT
< Server: Warp/3.2.28
< Content-Type: application/json;charset=utf-8
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
{"status":"OK","result":{"formatted_address":"Tegucigalpa, Honduras","name":"Tegucigalpa","geometry":{"location":{"lat":14.065049,"lng":-87.1715002}}}}⏎   
```

Commit message:

some notes about the c sources

README.md, after:

# Senex

Uses Astrodientst's [Swiss Ephemeris](https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swephinfo_e.htm) C library in Haskell, exposing it as a Module and then using it for a Servant-based API that powers a tiny Elm SPA, which renders a Placidus chart in SVG.

## Progress as of 12/15/2019

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82133/70871651-608e7080-1f6f-11ea-8432-0c2031d8b6a2.png)


## Development

Been using VSCode with `elm`, `Haskell Language Server` and `Haskell Language` as extensions; it's been quite alright except for [the weird memory leak in HIE](https://dimjasevic.net/marko/2018/08/15/haskell-ide-the-memory-hog-engine/) (!)

To run the backend server, simply run `stack run`. Currently, it doesn't serve the Elm app: I'm using [`elm-live`](https://github.com/wking-io/elm-live) for live development, so I'm simply running both processes on separate terminals and visiting `localhost:8000` to see the Elm SPA.

To run elm-live:

    elm-live src/Main.elm -- --output=main.js

To run the Haskell server

    stack run


### Notes:

* Consider packaging the C bindings, and adding the appropriate support in the `cabal` file.
* Considered using [`servant-elm`](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/servant-elm), but ended up defining my JSON types and functions by hand.
* Even though cabal auto-generates the `hs` files from `hsc` sources when building/linking, `VSCode` seems confounded about `hsc` files and one needs to run `stack build` by hand to get them to be compiled -- the `hie` process picks them up afterwards, it seems.

## Haskell bindings to the SwissEphemeris library

### Compiling the C libs

I'm currently ignoring the C sources, as they're downloaded as-is from the official site. The version I'm using is the sources for 2.08 as found in the [downloads page](https://www.astro.com/ftp/swisseph/) -- I put them in a `csrc` folder.

```
➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.so
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swedate.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swehouse.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swejpl.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swemmoon.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swemplan.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swepcalc.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   sweph.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swepdate.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swephlib.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swecl.c     
cc	 -c -g -Wall -fPIC  	   swehel.c     
cc	 -shared -o libswe.so swedate.o swehouse.o swejpl.o swemmoon.o swemplan.o swepcalc.o sweph.o swepdate.o swephlib.o swecl.o swehel.o

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.a
ar r libswe.a	swedate.o swehouse.o swejpl.o swemmoon.o swemplan.o swepcalc.o sweph.o swepdate.o swephlib.o swecl.o swehel.o
ar: creating archive libswe.a

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ make libswe.dylib

➜  csrc git:(master) ✗ cp libswe.* /usr/local/lib/
```

## Using the C Bindings

Example main (based on https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swephprg.htm#_Toc19111155):

```haskell
main :: IO
main = do 
  -- location of your ephemeris _folder_
  setEphemeridesPath "/Users/luis/code/senex/csrc/sweph_18"
  let time = julianDay 1989 1 6 0.0
  let coords = map (\p -> (p, (calculateCoordinates time p))) [Sun .. Chiron]
  let cusps  = calculateCusps time (basicCoords (14.0839053, -87.2750137)) Placidus
  forM_ coords $ \(planet, coord)->
    putStrLn $ show planet ++ ": " ++ show coord
  putStrLn $ "Cusps: " ++ show cusps
```

Which outputs:

```haskell
Sun: Right (Coords {lat = 285.64724200024165, long = -8.254238068673002e-5, distance = 0.983344884137739, longSpeed = 1.0196526213625938, latSpeed = 1.4968387810319695e-5, distSpeed = 1.734078975098347e-5})
Moon: Right (Coords {lat = 262.48117294528356, long = -4.905353383440304, distance = 2.541059357627873e-3, longSpeed = 13.539284298718682, latSpeed = 0.3392091965109866, distSpeed = -3.335582471922629e-5})
Mercury: Right (Coords {lat = 304.31440617188355, long = -1.3440800529425412, distance = 1.0631760110344726, longSpeed = 1.2740014806904785, latSpeed = 0.15124350747576998, distSpeed = -2.4544384076849012e-2})
Venus: Right (Coords {lat = 264.04869233523164, long = 0.611405334065098, distance = 1.541582583770699, longSpeed = 1.2513022022944864, latSpeed = -4.242629234528706e-2, distSpeed = 3.7838225239450584e-3})
Mars: Right (Coords {lat = 22.78483261142441, long = 0.6472654073363234, distance = 1.0224116051096686, longSpeed = 0.5238430038342773, latSpeed = 1.942622907667852e-2, distSpeed = 9.240031315557963e-3})
Jupiter: Right (Coords {lat = 56.44155800097809, long = -0.8785523476115656, distance = 4.335644198505431, longSpeed = -4.88842084035685e-2, latSpeed = 4.367591705532038e-3, distSpeed = 1.235220405072288e-2})
Saturn: Right (Coords {lat = 276.1820087613432, long = 0.7124661106433279, distance = 11.011939358359793, longSpeed = 0.11736930636883483, latSpeed = -9.50953203038811e-4, distSpeed = -2.7734883523371427e-3})
Uranus: Right (Coords {lat = 272.0517155140088, long = -0.22004079326191983, distance = 20.269982255822082, longSpeed = 5.9199702638179044e-2, latSpeed = -1.8348838403496113e-4, distSpeed = -3.835650269219664e-3})
Neptune: Right (Coords {lat = 280.1110438430756, long = 0.9024310257851641, distance = 31.197894367235328, longSpeed = 3.7822803787784465e-2, latSpeed = -1.0376379525413769e-4, distSpeed = -1.6316454570516235e-3})
Pluto: Right (Coords {lat = 224.68172926588147, long = 15.629616292066745, distance = 30.10503346247479, longSpeed = 2.3906567127179156e-2, latSpeed = 7.006203197180026e-3, distSpeed = -1.4619215232707367e-2})
MeanNode: Right (Coords {lat = 337.5234813280144, long = 0.0, distance = 2.5695552897999894e-3, longSpeed = -5.29028695601468e-2, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 0.0})
TrueNode: Right (Coords {lat = 336.0939772852687, long = 0.0, distance = 2.431002861595713e-3, longSpeed = -0.15458670098362634, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 9.461379851655086e-6})
MeanApog: Right (Coords {lat = 176.27796853267614, long = -1.658313456511187, distance = 2.7106251317225464e-3, longSpeed = 0.11092946668995039, latSpeed = -1.3957593707984951e-2, distSpeed = 0.0})
OscuApog: Right (Coords {lat = 160.76672907240018, long = -0.4175464087960888, distance = 2.7280104068905034e-3, longSpeed = -3.219056080555324, latSpeed = 0.2728854201125149, distSpeed = 4.0357015237500586e-6})
Earth: Right (Coords {lat = 0.0, long = 0.0, distance = 0.0, longSpeed = 0.0, latSpeed = 0.0, distSpeed = 0.0})
Chiron: Right (Coords {lat = 93.53727572747667, long = -6.849325566420532, distance = 11.045971701732345, longSpeed = -6.391339610156536e-2, latSpeed = 8.213606290819226e-4, distSpeed = 1.6210560093203594e-3})
Cusps: (Cusps {i = 112.20189657163523, ii = 138.4658382335878, iii = 167.69682489058204, iv = 199.79861981778183, v = 232.2797046698429, vi = 263.0249102802477, vii = 292.20189657163525, viii = 318.46583823358776, ix = 347.69682489058204, x = 19.798619817781823, xi = 52.27970466984291, xii = 83.02491028024768},Angles {ascendant = 112.20189657163523, mc = 19.798619817781823, armc = 18.277351820745423, vertex = 216.1872418365295, equatorialAscendant = 106.85773516967282, coAscendantKoch = 101.19442735316477, coAscendantMunkasey = 153.1221838791593, polarAscendant = 281.19442735316477})
```

Note that the `calculateCoordinates` function is currently using the default calculations from Swiss Ephemeris, which return the _ecliptic_ degree numbers for position. One could also obtain equatorial. To compare the output of the above main to the <astro.com> raw data, you can use this page: https://www.astro.com/swisseph/swetest.htm

## Using the API

If you execute `stack run`, you'll launch the little web server. Right now there's only one endpoint, `/api/horoscope`, which outputs all the necessary data to draw a chart using the Placidus system (with geocentric, ecliptic planetary coordinates).

E.g.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -vd '{"dob": "2019-11-29T20:52:39.230Z", "loc": [40.7128, 74.0060]}' http://localhost:3030/api/horoscope | jq
```

Will return:

```json
{
  "angles": {
    "coAscendantMunkasey": 184.07155823288545,
    "armc": 95.61800714416292,
    "vertex": 12.249319507635633,
    "coAscendantKoch": 189.73116677377803,
    "polarAscendant": 9.731166773778025,
    "ascendant": 184.45905828112743,
    "equatorialAscendant": 186.11946559553854,
    "mc": 95.15715438291743
  },
  "cusps": {
    "viii": 30.857771867801034,
    "iv": 275.15715438291744,
    "xii": 158.7976013458591,
    "vii": 4.459058281127454,
    "iii": 241.49309969070742,
    "xi": 128.63707423591143,
    "vi": 338.7976013458591,
    "x": 95.15715438291743,
    "ii": 210.857771867801,
    "v": 308.6370742359114,
    "ix": 61.493099690707425,
    "i": 184.45905828112743
  },
  "planets": [
    {
      "planet": "Sun",
      "coords": {
        "long": -3.2442303790940265e-05,
        "distSpeed": -0.00017325688712833964,
        "distance": 0.9863760524073597,
        "lat": 247.33264880176225,
        "longSpeed": 1.0133084132855246,
        "latSpeed": -3.863831321763737e-05
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Moon",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.8193364655556776,
        "distSpeed": 3.4199571717112877e-05,
        "distance": 0.002595173044398994,
        "lat": 287.65707267611856,
        "longSpeed": 12.85711522794824,
        "latSpeed": -1.1591077157393737
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Mercury",
      "coords": {
        "long": 2.2840468202086095,
        "distSpeed": 0.023643862939218642,
        "distance": 1.0394771384346215,
        "lat": 227.4720925435879,
        "longSpeed": 1.1103955965543209,
        "latSpeed": -0.07381439176273445
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Venus",
      "coords": {
        "long": -1.4298689406579366,
        "distSpeed": -0.004673349588300221,
        "distance": 1.4436347832633516,
        "lat": 274.7729229195149,
        "longSpeed": 1.2393033430774942,
        "latSpeed": -0.03062141107869374
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Mars",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.6389925032221768,
        "distSpeed": -0.005799817007780383,
        "distance": 2.394266061807406,
        "lat": 216.9582906658545,
        "longSpeed": 0.6613181108727035,
        "latSpeed": -0.007476121429545853
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Jupiter",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.14065496787551218,
        "distSpeed": 0.0055021301641855185,
        "distance": 6.140564456540776,
        "lat": 269.35796286622525,
        "longSpeed": 0.22093221925582224,
        "latSpeed": -0.0017197586772309318
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Saturn",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0.09219558630909697,
        "distSpeed": 0.010786603076421411,
        "distance": 10.766634669694042,
        "lat": 287.87005793978847,
        "longSpeed": 0.09923907956042938,
        "latSpeed": -0.0013210873063737077
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Uranus",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.5086037140772992,
        "distSpeed": 0.009634594204334702,
        "distance": 18.996900475321056,
        "lat": 33.3730578798885,
        "longSpeed": -0.03189501312360131,
        "latSpeed": 0.0003803078778294534
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Neptune",
      "coords": {
        "long": -1.0404667767161933,
        "distSpeed": 0.01714450411055644,
        "distance": 29.77022690830857,
        "lat": 345.9277533857561,
        "longSpeed": 0.0013585201191201608,
        "latSpeed": 0.00044575928526611444
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Pluto",
      "coords": {
        "long": -0.6093798128580833,
        "distSpeed": 0.012651161944830309,
        "distance": 34.630835428945375,
        "lat": 291.42159066580865,
        "longSpeed": 0.02585129866720648,
        "latSpeed": -0.0012984194145876868
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "MeanNode",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0.0025695552897999903,
        "lat": 99.940245204816,
        "longSpeed": -0.0529198493423801,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "TrueNode",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": -2.000108152646491e-05,
        "distance": 0.0025454732460946884,
        "lat": 98.64506720104299,
        "longSpeed": 0.014766990832911874,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "MeanApog",
      "coords": {
        "long": -4.934892324024697,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0.0027106251317225464,
        "lat": 353.45270582739926,
        "longSpeed": 0.11199567205597004,
        "latSpeed": -0.004183727585189979
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "OscuApog",
      "coords": {
        "long": -5.19812275167748,
        "distSpeed": -5.769891521104746e-06,
        "distance": 0.0027194482077314954,
        "lat": 3.8151605129556345,
        "longSpeed": -3.557246823636227,
        "latSpeed": 0.01887116086156039
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Earth",
      "coords": {
        "long": 0,
        "distSpeed": 0,
        "distance": 0,
        "lat": 0,
        "longSpeed": 0,
        "latSpeed": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "planet": "Chiron",
      "coords": {
        "long": 3.0425800620614827,
        "distSpeed": 0.01597359808865773,
        "distance": 18.396872395030705,
        "lat": 1.5149084336742755,
        "longSpeed": -0.012095695862155824,
        "latSpeed": -0.0036824990895765585
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

###  Google Places Proxy

Due to CORS restrictions, we can't call the google places APIs from Elm. Fortunately, it's quite straightforward to build a proxy! Here's an example interaction:

```bash
➜  senex git:(google-apis) ✗ curl -v "http://localhost:3030/api/proxy/autocomplete?input=tegucigalpa&token=12345"
*   Trying ::1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connection failed
* connect to ::1 port 3030 failed: Connection refused
*   Trying 127.0.0.1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 3030 (#0)
> GET /api/proxy/autocomplete?input=tegucigalpa&token=12345 HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3030
> User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2019 20:19:14 GMT
< Server: Warp/3.2.28
< Content-Type: application/json;charset=utf-8
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
{"status":"OK","predictions":[{"place_id":"ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g","description":"Tegucigalpa, Honduras"}]}⏎                                                                                                                                       ➜  senex git:(google-apis) ✗ curl -v "http://localhost:3030/api/proxy/placeDetails?place_id=ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g&token=12345"
*   Trying ::1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connection failed
* connect to ::1 port 3030 failed: Connection refused
*   Trying 127.0.0.1...
* TCP_NODELAY set
* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 3030 (#0)
> GET /api/proxy/placeDetails?place_id=ChIJUT10v7qib48R08lqIDgiz2g&token=12345 HTTP/1.1
> Host: localhost:3030
> User-Agent: curl/7.54.0
> Accept: */*
> 
< HTTP/1.1 200 OK
< Transfer-Encoding: chunked
< Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2019 20:19:56 GMT
< Server: Warp/3.2.28
< Content-Type: application/json;charset=utf-8
< 
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
{"status":"OK","result":{"formatted_address":"Tegucigalpa, Honduras","name":"Tegucigalpa","geometry":{"location":{"lat":14.065049,"lng":-87.1715002}}}}⏎   
```
